So in the last video we talked about static polymorphism which achieved the results through something
that is known as method overloading.
So when we have the same method code the way we have it here but different parameters which is what
we have as well we have different parameters.
We are performing method overloading and by method overloading we were able to perform static polymorphism
or letting the same method have different behaviors.
Now in this video we'll be talking about dynamic polymorphism which is basically a mechanism by which
a call to an overridden function is resolved at a runtime a.k.a. when your code is running on the machine.
We achieved dynamic polymorphism through method overwriting so method overwriting as we already saw
just means that we have two or more methods with the same name and same signature.
Unlike in static polymorphism however what is different in this one is that those two methods with the
same name and same signature will have different behaviors.
So as you can see here and the retail sales person and car salesman same method signature right same
method signature but different implementation so different implementation.
But they're coming from the same base class OK.
I agree.
This all sounds very confusing.
Let me go ahead and once again propose a hypothetical problem so that while we solve it we can also
understand what dynamic polymorphism is all about.
Let's imagine that one of our clients calls us and says Hey man remember that program you're writing
with salespeople and developers okay.
They have a new requirement.
They just got this new database and the database contains all of the child classes of salesmen for now
car salesmen and retail salesperson.
So this guy and this guy there over a million rose in that database just a bunch of car salesmen and
retail salesperson data as mentioned later on they will be adding more child classes to the salesman
based class.
So keep that in mind.
Meaning these won't be two types forever.
Very soon they will be adding more and more.
Your task is to load all of the items from the database and then for each separate item you need to
show us how that salesman sells regardless if it is a car salesman or a salesperson or any other child
class that we create from the salesman parent class.
Now what they want is a flexible software that will take all of the items from the database and print
how they sell and they don't want to be constantly changing the code.
If they keep adding more types they told me that after we released a software they will be adding 50
types per day.
So if they have to change the code that frequently then they will just give the job to another contractor
altogether.
But if you can make it flexible so that they don't have to touch the code at all times then they will
give you the price you asked for.
And also they will give you a bonus which will be a 50 percent of the price you asked.
So not a bad gig at all.
OK so let's look at a diagram.
They send us to even better understand the requirements.
See here they are going to have a database in the database.
They're going to have this is just a few rows that I'm showing you.
Just an example.
Also I understand that the data in the message will be repetitive but I just had to keep my table very
simplistic.
I don't want to normalize and everything else just for simplicity's sake.
We're gonna keep it like this.
So this is just three rows.
But they said there's millions of rows so we have just a bunch of car salesmen retail salesmen we have
a bunch of first names and last names and just the message.
Messages are pretty much the same for car salesmen and retail salesperson so it just varies like that
but now from the database we somehow have to load it into our application and then we have to tell our
application to basically show how each of these sells men sells.
Now one quick thing this is just a hypothetical database and I won't be showing you how to connect with
the database and load that stuff because that's just way too complex.
We're just going to imagine that we have loaded stuff into our application and that is coming from a
database.
But this is just so that you can see the problem within a more realistic context.
But once again I won't be doing any database connections or anything just not to introduce more complexity
to the course at least for this section because this is just about dynamic polymorphism.
And once again I just wanted to show you this problem within a more realistic application.
So you see how this could be used in the real world.
But I digress.
So we have a database once again we have to load that into an application which this part we will just
imagine that we have loaded it from a database into our application and then we will have to find a
way to flexibly show the end user how each of these salesmen sells.
And we have to do it in a way that even if they add more types here we don't have to touch the code
in our application.
OK.
The first thing that comes to mind is that we will not be instantiating all of the classes line by line
and then calling the cell method on them.
We can try that but you already know the problem with that.
Let's give it a try.
So we'll go here and I will actually remove this.
Let's go ahead and write our code.
So here I have car sale to car salesmen and one retail salesperson so I was a car salesman and I will
say car salesmen just for simplicity's sake.
Once again I'm just going to name this car salesman one new car salesman.
I'll put the names in just a bit.
I to get this part going and then we'll have a retail salesperson so retail salesperson.
OK.
And that will be that.
And here we go.
Now for each of these after after I put the names we're gonna have to call sell method on them right
to see how each of these salesmen sells.
Now that's where we're going to do here.
That's cool.
And also here in the spacing as messed up that's why I go and do the same for this guy the same for
this guy.
OK.
So this is too.
That's what I meant.
And here we also are going to have cell.
OK.
Now we can also pop in the names that we have from our sample.
We'll go ahead and quickly do that as well.
So I actually copy it from here one.
All right.
That's good.
And then we have two.
Right.
And last one actually this one was for our retail salesperson if I don't I'm not mistaken.
So just this part and I just want to double check that nope.
That's for our car salesman actually.
OK.
So that's fine.
That was my mistake.
I'll just copy this.
Bring it back.
So we have already all the information.
I'm just going to grab this guy and pop it right in here.
OK.
So now we have it all.
Now there are a lot of problems with this.
Let's say magically we were able to write a million of these statements which is already ridiculous.
But if they add more rows not even types we will have to open our program and add another line for just
that row in the database.
This is a horrible solution.
One thing which comes to mind is a list.
Why not load these in the list.
So that's a bit of a better solution.
So we can go ahead and do that.
The question though is since we have different types how can we put them in one list.
One way we can do that is by using an object type.
Basically you can think of an object as the ultimate base class for old data types in C sharp.
So you know how our salesman is a base class.
So this guy right is a base class for retail salesperson and car salesman will object.
There's a base class for everything in C sharp so we can take advantage of that and say hey our list
can take anything including salesman shop classes or any other type.
It's all inclusive.
So for example this is a car salesman and this is a retail salesperson.
But I can say I can just put salesmen in both places and it will just be fine.
Why.
Because these two classes are child classes of this base class whether it's a car salesman or retail
salesperson.
It plugs right into the salesman.
But what I'm saying is we can go a few levels higher and just say object.
Right.
So just say object and that will double work just fine because object is a base class for everything
else.
The only problem is that the object doesn't know about the cell method and we will take care of that
in just a minute.
Let's bring this back.
OK.
Now let's make a list as I suggest it.
Let's say this is a list of objects and we will say salesman so salesman equals new list of objects.
And we're just going to have to import the system collections generic that's fine and then we're we're
going to do is we're actually going to put the declarations within our list.
So right here one two three all right.
And take out our line by line instantiation.
Now here's thing we.
This is the part where we need to kind of wire up our imagination just imagined that this part is being
loaded from the database.
So some program that we wrote just grab stuff from the database and put some right near it.
It converts the database information into our types that we have in our application and put them right
into our list.
So this is basically what we have given.
So even if they put more rose more types anything else we don't have to touch this.
That will automatically come into our list and be put right here for us.
Now what we need to do is we need to write a method that will flexibly take these types and print the
way they sell.
So it's have to take a salesman and tell us how that salesman sells.
Now this looks much better but we're not calling the developed method let's loop around our list and
call the developed method.
On each class the wait since we put classes into a list that accept objects.
Remember that problem.
How do we then convert them back into our types that we put them in initially because we can't really
use the sell method.
And I'll show you why.
So if we say for each and then we just say
var item in salesman.
This item doesn't know anything about sell.
All right.
It doesn't know what sell is because we're basically going all the levels up to object and putting these
into our object and the object points to our child classes.
But the parent class doesn't have that method on it.
If we go a few levels down to salesmen it will know what sell method is but at the highest level at
an object we don't know what that sell method is.
So what we need to do to get around that is use casting casting is just a process of going from one
type to another.
In this case we're going from one object to salesman child class.
So let's make a method called to show me how to sell.
So we'll just basically create another method and say static void.
Show me how to sell that method.
We'll take in an object and we'll say it's a salesman
all right.
And then we'll just say each item will be passed into the.
Show me how to sell method.
OK.
And then we'll take care of the rest inside the method.
So once we get the object we then have to determine its type.
And we can do this by the IS RESERVED keyword so we can say if the salesman which is the generic Object
being passed in is car salesman.
Then just create car salesman variable
of the car salesman type and say this is how you do casting by the way you put parentheses and you put
the type that you want to convert to from the type that you have.
So in this case salesman.
OK.
And this is how you are converting from whatever object in this case object that the most generic Object
back to what it was.
So as you can see it's just a two way conversion.
We're going from a concrete class to a very generic class and then we're going from a generic class
to a concrete class through casting.
That's all we're doing from one to the other.
Now once we have converted it into a car salesman.
When I say ok cool I know how to I know how to call the sell method on that.
And we just say sell.
OK.
And then else since we only have two types we can just say else and say I will.
Otherwise it's just gonna have to be retail salesperson.
Right.
So we just do this change the name of the variable readability sake.
And here we go.
As you can see we're checking to see which type of salesman it is so that we can appropriately convert
our object into that type of salesman and then call that sell method on it.
Now let's run the program.
I'm gonna pop that in here and run the code.
So here we go.
We have a list and I'm going to breakpoint right here.
And each time we go first item as a car salesman will it you know that step into it's going to say what
is the what is this salesman you passed me.
Is it a car salesman.
Yes it is.
Now it's gonna convert into car salesman and call sell.
See I would recommend you to buy this car.
I'm actually going to bring it right up there.
There we go.
So we can see it is.
And then it's gonna it's gonna go to the next one.
OK.
It goes to the next one says what is the next one the list is stuck.
So car salesman yes it is called a sell method on it now.
Next one is what is it retail sales person.
Right now it's going to go and say Is it car salesman no OK retail salesperson.
Perfect.
See I would recommend you to buy this nice with a first name and last name also.
Now that's great.
Now this works but if we add more types we would definitely have to mess with our code meaning we won't
satisfy the business requirement.
Let's try it
I will add another type so I will basically create a new file cold call insurance broker and I will
say insurance brokers.
Yes.
And that's that.
Then I will copy the code from here.
Go to insurance broker rename.
Copy that is itself developing.
Well not going to give itself developing properties just for the sake of it.
Keep it simple and you know changing the constructor name cool high name in my name is whatever the
name we give it.
I recommend you to buy this insurance.
So OK so that's that.
And then develop class we don't need that.
So we're gonna take that out.
OK.
So that's it.
Now if we come back to this right now let's say they added something a database and we automatically
loaded it here.
We say new insurance broker.
All right.
And we just say let's say that's my name.
And that.
Now if we run this you'll see what happens I'm actually going to take this out so we can speed it up
a bit.
You'll see that it runs for the first one and runs for the second want.
It runs for the third one.
But the fourth one it's not going to know it's gonna break.
It's gonna say unable to cast object of type insurance broker to type retail salesperson.
This just means that we have to change our code.
We have to go ahead and we have to change our code.
We have to add another condition and we have to say something like this.
We have to say you know else if basically the salesman is the type of type of retail salesperson then
do this.
And otherwise you know take care of the new case new type that is insurance broker.
Right.
And we can change this as well.
And this will work.
But as you saw you know if they start adding 50 more types they have to add 50 more types here.
So you can see that this can get really really large really quickly.
And that's definitely not maintainable.
Definitely not scalable.
The next video we'll look for a solution on how to get out of this problem.